-: Welcome back.
In this step,
we are going to deploy our ALB ingress template,
all the manifests, whatever we have here.
So which is MySQL external in name service, user management
microservice deployment, Kubernetes secrets
and then user management node port service
and also ALB ingress basic.
So we are going to deploy all these manifests
and then test it now.
So before going that
let's go to this Meyer scale external name service
which means like this Meyer scale RDS end point
and then ensure that it is up and running.
So that's one important thing.
So if it is not running then,
the application will not come up, right?
That user management microservice.
So that's the reason.
Go to DB instances and you can see that user
management DB is up and running, it's available.
So we are good.
So that first step is done.
Second step is like we can go ahead
and then deploy the stuff.
So let me go here
and then we'll go to zero eight is our thing
which is ALB application load balances inside
that we are doing with 0 8 0 2, right?
And there you can find our Kube manifest
whatever we have updated just now, right?
So I'll say kubectl, apply,
hyphen F and then Kube manifest.
So any error is there also it is going to throw to us.
So let's wait for it to get created.
So my skill got created,
microservice deployment got created,
dbpassword got created,
node port service got created
and then ingress got created.
So what is our next step here to verify the stuff.
So kubectl, get pods.
So this is the pod.
So I'll say kubectl, logs,
hyphen F,
and then I'll take the pod name.
So I'll tail the logs
and then see that it came up properly, right?
So it started, but it's waiting
on his livenes and then readiness probes to be completed.
So I'll say watch, get pods and then watch.
So zero by one is there until and unless it comes
as one by one, we need to wait ideally, right?
So to access it by a browser
but before that we can check other stuff here, right?
So which is nothing but get ingress, right?
So get ingress will provide the ALB DNS name.
So this is our ALB DNS name
whatever it has provided for us.
So it created a ingress user management rest tab service
and this is that DNS name,
whatever it is providing for us, okay?
So now we'll also verify our kubectl, get svc.
Which is nothing
but the user management node port service
whatever it has created, we need to crosscheck.
So it created the node port service
with 31329 dynamic port.
Okay, so that's about it.
So now let's go back here
and then verify the ingress controller
describe the ingress controller, whatever we have created.
Okay, so we can paste it here and then describe it.
So this is for our additional understanding only.
So which means like what all annotations it has taken
into consideration when deploying it
and what is the host star slash star should go
to this node port service.
All this information you can see.
So whatever we have deployed
the same thing is going to be there in the describe also.
But just to understand what it has deployed
we can see it here and you can even see the events, right?
Any Kubernetes object in Kubernetes, whenever you go ahead
and then describe it, you'll get the series of events
whatever it has been implemented.
So if any issues also you can find it here.
Finally, one important thing is always whenever
you deploy your ingress manifest, at least
for the first to one or two times
go ahead and then verify the ingress controller logs.
So why you need to verify your ingress controller logs.
So you have done lot of work related
to creating a Kubernetes service account,
cluster role,
cluster role binding,
and then IAM policy and then IAM role.
So all these four, five things you have integrated.
So if there are any issues in that process
then it is going to tell us from here.
So I'm going to verify the logs,
okay?
So successfully reconciled, okay?
So there is no issues or no error related.
So if there is an error
it is going to show an error like this,
reconcile our error failed due to build load
balancer configuration due to unable to fetch subnets,
okay?
So some error related to access denied.
So if we have any issues related
to accessments like roll based access control
whatever we have provided there, if you do any mistake.
So this type of errors are possible.
So that's the thing.
So that's the reason always it's good to
verify the ALB ingress controller locks.
So now we have verified this stuff from the Kubernetes side.
So let's go to our management console
and verify the listeners target groups
and then finally access the application.
So let's go to EC2, right?
In EC2 let's go to load balancers.
And in load balancer you can see a load balancer is created
and off type application load balancer, okay?
And now one thing we need to see is
in listeners we need to go inside listeners.
The default listener is 80.
So if you see the manifest here, so related to ingress
you don't see anything here, right?
So nothing related to listener we have provided
but still it has created everything for us, okay?
So default because default is 80.
And now let's also review the rules, right?
In rules, anything with slash star go to this target group.
Okay, so let me open this target group, right?
So anything with slash star go to this target group,
hundred percent traffic going to this target group.
So we open the target groups in target groups also
you can find only one target group here
and in targets, right?
It picked up the 31329 port.
So this should be our node port, right?
So let's go here and then clear this up.
And then kubectl get svc, right?
So you can see 31239 is our user management
rest tab node port services node port.
So this load balancer is created in public subnet.
So let's go here.
So it is connecting to this node port service
on 31239 of this worker nodes port.
So this worker nodes node port is 31239.
Why are that?
It'll come to this service which will be internally
a cluster IP service of 8095.
And from here it'll go
to the respect to part,
means like target port is 8095.
So this understanding is very important for us
in what is happening from load balancer perspective
and also on the worker node, node port service,
a node port service perspective, right?
So that's about it.
So it connected on 31239
and then from both the servers it is healthy.
Why?
Because service can be spanned
across all the worker nodes, right?
So from here you access also you can access this pod
or from this worker node you access also
you can access this pod.
So that's the reason from both the nodes
it is connecting to this respective pod
and then it is telling us it is healthy.
And one final thing we need to
cross-check is group details, right?
So which is nothing
but whatever we have configured the path
whatever we have provided in the annotation here, right?
User management health status, the same thing came here
and it checked the health
and ensure that our backend is healthy.
That's about it.
So this completes the creation
of application load balancer using ingress
manifest whatever we have created just now.
So we verified our load balancer,
we verified the target groups.
So now let's go ahead and then access the application.
We can even say health status
or even we can list the users also, right?
Slash users.
So let's go and then get our ALB ingress URL.
So which is nothing but the DNS URL.
We can get it directly from DNS name
in our load balancer here in the description section.
Or we can get from
kubectl get ingress in from this address section, okay?
So I can take it from here, copy
and then go to the new browser history
http://
and then I will say userMGMT/health hyphen status.
Okay, health is good.
And if you want to list the users
whatever is present in our database.
So we can say users, okay?
So we also have the list of users displayed.
So now if you see it here
when we called the users, the request went
from internet browser to the application load balancer
which is nothing but our ingress service
and then validated the path here slash star and then went
into the user management node port service present
on these worker nodes, right?
And from there it went into the UMS pod,
respective pod
and from there it went into the Meyer scale
external name service and it went
to RDS database and then picked the user
and then displayed to the user back, okay?
So that's about happened on a overall flow.
If you want to again test further, test it via postman
you can even do that.
So you can go to settings here
and create a new environment and environment.
You can say ALB, ingress basic testing, right?
And the URL will be the variable name,
whatever you can find it here, right?
So URL and whatever, we copied this one, right?
So this one we have copied.
So I'll say, http://,
when I update an initial value
automatically current value should be updated.
The primary thing is we need the value
in current value only, okay?
So I'll click on add, right
and then close this and I'll go to environment here, right?
ALB ingress basic
and I can first test the health status.
I got the response, I can test the list users
and I got the response admin two and then admin three stuff.
Now I can create a user, right?
So I can create a user saying ALB ingress,
or ALB I basic, okay?
Simply I basic is ingress basic, okay?
So I'll paste the same as the email.
I'll paste the F name also same and L name also same.
Okay, so L name
and then F name, something like this, okay?
And then I'll post it
and anywhere we'll get the 504 hour notification service.
That is fine.
I'll come back to list users
and then I'll list the user, right?
So I can see that ALB basic user
whatever we have posted, it got created in our RDS database.
So entire workflow worker forever post service,
also in addition to guest service.
Finally, let's go ahead and then clean
up whatever we have created
as part of our ingress basic section.
So I'll go to my terminal, I am in 0802 ALB ingress
basics kubectl delete hyphen F, Kube manifests, right?
So whatever we have created should get deleted now.
So let's go back and then verify the same.
So our load balancer should get deleted.
So that's good.
Okay, so our target should be cleaned up.
Yeah, this looks good.
Okay, so this completes the implementation
of application load balancer using ingress
manifest the very basic, okay?
So in our next lecture we will enable the SSL
and then in following lecture we'll enable
HTTP to HTTP S redirection.
So like that we'll incrementally build the
ingress basic manifest to a very good level
and then we'll close the entire section, okay?
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.